Are children will be psychologicaly affected more than adults by the pandemic of Covid-19? 
I guess, it depends on the atmosphere that they are belonging to. Children, always, in all situations, are the reflection of their own other family members. Those are the main effectiveness of children at home. For kids, staying home orders are slightly a "Mess", and nonsense. So, as we are dealing with such pandemic, we have to keep an eye on them, ALWAYS. THAT MATTERS FOR SURE.
Is the anxiety disorder a  cause or a consequence of your lifestyle? 
Yes!Please go through the following links.Article The association between sedentary behaviour and risk of anxi... Article High Sedentary Behaviour and Low Physical Activity are Assoc... Article Sedentary behavior and anxiety: Association and influential ... Article Association Between Cigarette Smoking and Anxiety Disorders ... Article How cigarette smoking may increase the risk of anxiety sympt... 
Study recruitment using reddit?
I've used the "subreddit" r/samplesize for recruitment, its dedicated directly for this purpose (instructions on how to post, etc., are contained in the sidebar). I got about 200 participants in of a month using this approach, and my IRB did not ask any questions. I think posting recruitment ads on other subreddits (related to disease states, etcc)  is at the discretion of the moderators. I asked about one and was told no. 
Does Omega 3 cause anxiety?
Omega-3 fatty acids are helpful in prevention and treatment of anxiety and depression. Article Omega 3 Consumption and Anxiety Disorders: A Cross-Sectional... Article Food for Mood: Relevance of Nutritional Omega-3 Fatty Acids ... Article The role of omega-3 fatty acids in mood disorders Article Omega-3 Fatty Acids from Fish Oil Lower Anxiety, Improve Cog... Conference Paper Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids and anxiety disorders Article Omega-3 Supplementation Lowers Inflammation and Anxiety in M... 
Ethically, how problematic is asking participants with anxiety to only fill an online survey while in a state of anxiety or panic?
If you are in a panic attack you probably do not go to the computer to fill in a form. You can administer Beck anxiety inventory  (BAI) and people can fill in all the symptoms they experience, I am sure they remember the symptoms  well after some attacks. 
How stimulant treatment prevents serious outcomes of ADHD?
there is a debate in last issue of JAACAP about long term effectiveness of stimulants. i'm more sceptical about effects of stimulants in real-life settings.
Is the GAD-7 an adequate screening measure for anxiety disorders?
Dear Dr Gonzalez-Robles,Anxiety disorders are a large group of different disorders with their on symptomatology, short and long term course. If you plan to include patients with different anxiety disorders in your trial, I suggest to use the MINI (International Neuropsychiatry Interview) for DSM5 for diagnosis and the HAMA (Hamilton Scale for Anxiety) and CGI (Clinical Global Impression ) for severity. They could be in your inclusion/exclusion criteria.BestAntonio
Psychiatric adverse events and oral isotretinoin therapy.
Harasit Kumar Paul , very good question. I hadn't thought of this, but I have seen this happen a lot clinically (symptoms of psychiatric illness secondary to isotretinoin therapy)
Masters dissertation - urgent participants needed
I've done the first part of the survey, good luck with your project!  However, the inquisit part at the end doesn't work - the error said something to do with the licence and that it would not run.
Why do you limit your scope to anxiety disorders?
Hi Ingmar,Thanks for asking! Actually, the scope is limited to anxiety disorders simply because they portray my research interest and expertise. If you are interested in research on vocal parameters in depression, I would be happy to send you some articles!Best, Gesine
Effects of relaxation trainings on anxiety disorders
Anxiety plays the very disturbing parts according to the nature problem & to me this implies from small category person to the higher level of person .It is in this line sometime back I have expressed my views  Anxiety depend on the nature of every individual person depending upon the problem & the period for which they have to pass . In case of individual certain person are wide powerful in their individual sensitivity & they are facing problem as it come believe in that we have to cooperate with the inevitable .As we know which well many person they have to pass their various phase of their disturbing problem of the life . Children problem ,illness & death in the family ,difference with the member of the family ,illness calling for long waiting period with the use experiences,disturbing illness like Cancer, death of the husband or wife ,are the problem which remain the part of anxiety for such long duration & this can be avoided only with the passage of time .This is my personal opinion
Are those diagnosed with anxiety disorders eligible for test taking accommodations according to ADA, IDEA and Section 504?
As a practitioner at the secondary level, 504 Plan accommodations for state testing was limited to 'extended time' and 'quiet space'.  By the time I left the classroom in 2016, it was getting harder to get accommodations for students with anxiety disorders under 504 Plans.  As the student population increased it was also harder to find facility space to meet the above accommodations.
Anxiety disorder and harming family members. 
While there may be research showing that individual's with GAD or social anxiety disorder exhibit more anger, I have never run across this in my own life.  I have dealt with GAD, Social Anxiety, and Panic Attacks for over 40 years now.  If anything, and this is related to only my own experiences and friends who have dealt with the same issues, those of us with social anxiety (especially) tend to retreat rather than react.  During a panic attack, a true, certified panic attack, there is absolutely no time or opportunity to show anger or violence.  Panic attacks are all consuming and if there is ever a moment where it is "all about me", it is during a panic attack.  For example, I pray that nothing dangerous happens to someone I love during one of my panic attacks because I simply would not be able to respond to it.  Social Anxiety, in my case again, led to 2 years of agoraphobia because I chose to go off of my medication.  Even after being back on my medication for over 2 years now, if there is a line at Walmart and it doesn't move fast enough, I will first kneel down.  If after kneeling for several minutes it is not yet my turn to check out, I will simply leave my cart and go home.  Those I know who have dealt with either social anxiety or generalized anxiety tend to have similar reactions, although perhaps not as exacerbated.  I guess what I am trying to show by the examples I have given, is that I do not see aggression and anger being part of anxiety UNLESS the person has a co-morbid issue involving either a secondary psychological disorder or a substance abuse disorder.  I hope this helped a little!
Are relaxation and breathing techniques appropriate as part of exposure in CBT?
Marc Josep Garcia Hervás that sounds like an interesting idea! And I suppose it would depend on the ultimate aim- to eliminate distress or manage more effectively?
Are there cut-offs for different anxiety levels on the STAI-6?
David,There are actually a few of them out there
Are there other similar experiences like Praecox Feeling in relation to other diagnoses?
This answer reflects my experiences in 15 years of actual nearly full-time clinical practice.  I believe these are the sorts of answer you were pursuing?  1) There are times that walking into the hospital room of a patient who is severely depressed feels as if there is a palpable gust of "sad" that "comes off" the patient (this is not literal of course).  I have described this experience over the years to students and trainees as similar to the actual gust of heat one feels when opening the door of an oven that has been at 400 F for a while. 2) I think we can all universally agree there are some persons with Autism you meet and it's completely clear immediately - by this I mean the sort of classic, profound Autism characterized by a person being non-verbal, lacking joint attention, and engaging in repetitive, self-stimulatory behaviors.  When people say they "just know" someone has Autism without doing a complete diagnostic short of those sorts of presentations, frankly I get concerned.  3) As for ADHD, many times you will see behaviors from a child that could have you immediately conclude that the child must have it, until you take a history that includes significant trauma.  So that immediate feeling is not trustworthy at all, and because it can be strong, has to be actively fought against.  I'm sure there are other similar phenomena if you were to ask people who do a lot of clinical work.  I believe that all of this is what is intended to be captured under the concept of transference.  But that does not mean it isn't possibly worthy of more careful description and understanding than lumping into one big pot.
Zung Self-Rating Anxiety Scale
As the questionnaire was actually published in the journal, i.e. one can simply copy the questions from that, this would usually be considered as in the public domain. Although some organizations may be selling copies of the scale, I doubt they have any right to claim copyright. They may be able to claim some rights to their actual copy, in their particular design layout, but not for the questions. In short, you could just make your own copy from the questions listed in the article. 
Does abusing children change their DNA?
Just like environmental factors, psychological factors may have an impact on gene expression and its regulatory mechanisms but the extent of impact would be depndent on multifactorial aspects and would need to be ascertained in a case to case basis.
Anxiety disorders in children
 As a special education teacher and person with anxiety disorder, I found the ACE-Adverse Childhood Experience studies of 1995-97 to be both professionally and personally helpful to me and my research. It found that many psychiatric challenges result from traumatic events in early life, including drug and alcohol use and addictions. Left untreated these experiences can lead to severe physical illnesses and possibly early death. I support your efforts in studying this topic and suggest a qualitative study because you have a small sample which will allow a deeper study of the children as some children will need more time to develop trust and provide fear-free answers to your research questions.
What is the spread of aviophobia in the world?
https://books.google.iq/books?isbn=1509811052
What are the clinically relevant cut-off scores for depressive and anxiety symptoms in the DASS-21?
Cut-off scores very much depend on the population from which you are sampling. Attached is a very general suggestion.  dass-with-helpful-scoring-tool-reader.pdf1.35 MB
What studies out there specifically look at the mental health consequences of being an adoptee?
There are a lot of excellent epidemiological studies with massive sample sizes using the comprehensive Scandinavian Population Registers.   In fact,  I tend to doubt any social science finding unless confirmed in such samples.
Trauma Induced OCD vs 'Normal' OCD?
OCD is similar to many other psychiatric disorders in that the manifestation of the 'symptoms' are  incredibly heterogeneous.  For example there are 636,120 different ways to have post traumatic stress disorder based on current psychiatric diagnosis, and there are so many ways that psychotic symptoms can be combined that it makes it nonsensical to consider these as discrete disorders.  Therefore it is incredibly unlikely that there is a simple genetic explanation for these complex and multi-faceted disorders. 
Social phobia and higher IQ? How to survive?
 The society of people assesses the outstanding abilities of personalities in their Creativity. The criterion of genius is the real creations of Human, the novelty and genius of the newly created. At the same time, intellectual tests go to the background. Such tests are a kind of reference point for judging the potential intellectual abilities of a person. But a person is judged by his Creations, and not by intentions to create something unusual. 
OCD Vs Superstition?
To Beatrice: Checking whether the frontdoor has really been closed is a trivial job with an easy to check result: yet a part of the OC patients cannot become convinced. Looking whether you have extinguished the light is as simple job: yet a part of the OC patients have to return to the room time and again to see whether they really did. In due time they may not even be able to convince themselves when they are still in the room, which is already dark. Etc.
Is there any study in humans that show disruption of connections within the amygdala?
Dear Hari, Dear Colleagues,This is an interesting question. I think the following papers will help you:Sladky R, Höflich A, Küblböck M, Kraus C, Baldinger P, Moser E, Lanzenberger R, Windischberger C. Disrupted effective connectivity between the amygdala and orbitofrontal cortex in social anxiety disorder during emotion discrimination revealed by dynamic causal modeling for FMRI. Cereb Cortex 2015;25(4):895-903. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4379995/pdf/bht279.pdfChase HW, Moses-Kolko EL, Zevallos C, Wisner KL, Phillips ML. Disrupted posterior cingulate-amygdala connectivity in postpartum depressed women as measured with resting BOLD fMRI. Soc Cogn Affect Neurosci 2014;9(8):1069-1075. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4127008/pdf/nst083.pdfRamasubbu R, Konduru N, Cortese F, Bray S, Gaxiola-Valdez I, Goodyear B. Reduced intrinsic connectivity of amygdala in adults with major depressive disorder. Front Psychiatry 2014;5:17. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3928548/pdf/fpsyt-05-00017.pdfLiu W, Ge T, Leng Y, Pan Z, Fan J, Yang W, Cui R. The Role of Neural Plasticity in Depression: From Hippocampus to Prefrontal Cortex. Neural Plast 2017;2017:6871089. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5299163/pdf/NP2017-6871089.pdfHahn A, Stein P, Windischberger C, Weissenbacher A, Spindelegger C, Moser E, Kasper S, Lanzenberger R. Reduced resting-state functional connectivity between amygdala and orbitofrontal cortex in social anxiety disorder. Neuroimage 2011;56(3):881-889. https://www.researchgate.net/publication/50225446_Reuced_resting-state_functional_connectivity_between_amygdala_and_orbitofrontal_cortex_in_social_anxiety_disorderDong Hoon Oh. Traumatic Experiences Disrupt Amygdala – Prefrontal Connectivity. Chapter 13 from the book “The Amygdala - A Discrete Multitasking Manager”. Edited by Barbara Ferry. 2012:325-338. https://cdn.intechopen.com/pdfs-wm/41582.pdfLeal SL, Noche JA, Murray EA, Yassa MA. Disruption of amygdala-entorhinal-hippocampal network in late-life depression. Hippocampus 2017;27(4):464-476. http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/hipo.22705/abstract;jsessionid=F4D28266BE74122CBA0EE06241721308.f03t02Greening SG, Mitchell DG. A network of amygdala connections predict individual differences in trait anxiety. Hum Brain Mapp 2015;36(12):4819-4830. https://sites01.lsu.edu/faculty/sgreeninglab/wp-content/uploads/sites/98/2015/11/Greening-Mitchell-2015-A-network-of-amygdala-connections-predict-individual-differences-in-trait-anxiety.pdfWang F, Kalmar JH, He Y, Jackowski M, Chepenik LG, Edmiston EE, Tie K, Gong G, Shah MP, Jones M, Uderman J, Constable RT, Blumberg HP. Functional and structural connectivity between the perigenual anterior cingulate and amygdala in bipolar disorder. Biol Psychiatry 2009;66(5):516-521. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2830492/pdf/nihms175753.pdfGee DG, Humphreys KL, Flannery J, Goff B, Telzer EH, Shapiro M, Hare TA, Bookheimer SY, Tottenham N. A developmental shift from positive to negative connectivity in human amygdala-prefrontal circuitry. J Neurosci 2013;33(10):4584-4593. http://www.jneurosci.org/content/jneuro/33/10/4584.full.pdfBest wishes from Germany,MartinArticle Reuced resting-state functional connectivity between amygdal...
I'm studying the acceptability of guided self-help for adults with mild to moderate ptsd and wondered if anyone could suggest an appropriate measure?
Hello Mary,That's really helpful, thank you.  I will contact the authors and take it from there.  Your help is much appreciated!Best wishes,Natalie
Do you by any chance know studies concerning anxiety disorders, using emotional stroop task, with pre- and post-intervention measurments?
Yes, thats right. I don't have access to the APA site so it was helpful to find the paper on Researchgate. Paul
How parental perception of child's sexuality can correlate with anxiety/anxiety disorders?
It would be worth looking at Eleanor Maccoby's "The Development of Sex Differences" (1966) - especially the chapter by Lawrence Kohlberg.  It will give you the base literature on child sexuality and the social context/mediators which are involved.  Fairly easy to find in libraries/on-line bookshops 2nd hand.
The Period of Presocial Anxiety In Patients With Social Anxiety Disorder?
Our hypothesis was published in the Journal of Early Intervention In Psychiatry.  http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27585496We describe a prodromal period consisting of three stages. Every year millions of children around the world develop social phobia (from ADHD to social phobia). Social phobia can be captured in the prodromal period  and treated. Just as cancer patients captured during the period of pre-cancer (such as metaplasia, dysplasia), social anxiety can also be captured and treated in early stages. Now we are working on a scale to describe the period of Presocial anxiety. 
What are the possible treatment options available to deal with separation anxiety in infants exhibiting features of autism?
At that age I have found  that  working through a  loved care taker  and working gently and  directly with with the gravitational insecurity  can change that situation fairly quickly,,, and the anxiety goes away and development unfolds.    Behaviors resulting from sensory issues can sometimes look like autism. However sometimes the sensory issue is the issue.  I believe I provided a vignette in my article on Consultation in Early Intervention  that is posted on Research Gate.  An occupational therapist using a sensory integration approach  to sensory processing disorders would provide the intervention that would be most effective.
Hello, Could anybody help me with anxious temperament literature?
Dear Islam, Some suggestions:Article Intergenerational neural mediators of early-life anxious temperamentArticle Mismatch or allostatic load? Timing of life-adversity differ...Article Overexpressing corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) in the ...Article Anxious Temperament as a Risk Factor of Suicide Attempt (run...
Is there a free and reliable tool used to measure anxiety for cancer patients? and is there an Arabic version of it?
Dear Mahmoud Hamarsheh, You should find them here: http://www.arabjpsychiat.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=29:2000-vol-11-1-may&catid=1:volumes-a-articles&Itemid=2https://www.google.fi/webhp?sourceid=chrome-instant&ion=1&espv=2&ie=UTF-8#q=Psychometric+Properties+of+an+Arabic+Version+of+the+Depression+Anxiety+Stress+Scales+(DASS).http://www2.psy.unsw.edu.au/dass/Arabic/Arabic%20DASS%20Report.docArticle Psychometric properties and validation of Nepali version of ...Article Psychometric properties of the Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI) ...
I am looking for EBP for anxiety disorders with adolescents?
http://www.cope-a-lot.com/This is a good program that children can complete at home. It's from Phil Kendall, referenced in some previous responses. I believe there is also an analog for older children.
Are there instruments for measuring anxiety or self-efficacy in mathematics or statistics among primary school children?
Thanks for your suggestions, Beatrice.
How does anxiety affect young children's physical growth/development?
Renzo, Do you know a single person that would not have any illness, disorder, fear or handicap to cope with. The moment we are born we start to die. This is why the cost of life - and what goes with it - is high in general. 
Which is the best scale of Electroencephalogram (EEG) to study anxiety and depression in patients ?
To the best of my knowledge as a former EEG researcher, the EEG does not produce a reliable way to measure anxiety. As you may know, the EEG reflects only that part of the brain's electrical functioning that can cross the rather nonconductive skullbone. In addition, it reflects only a weak vector summation of millions of synapses. Finally, the signal is masked by the blood vessels of the head, large and small, which conduct various electrical signals (including Alpha waveforms) much better than bone due to their being filled with blood, which is electrically conductive due to its salt content.While there is much controversial or fringe research that shows various EEG effects as a result of meditation, anxiety, and even thinking and task-solving, none of this research, to the best of my knowledge, is part of accepted medical knowledge. It cannot as yet be considered fact.If you want a reliable measure of anxiety, you cannot do better than the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory for Adults (STAI Form Y), available at http://www4.parinc.com/Products/Product.aspx?ProductID=STAI . This is an accepted psychological instrument, having itself been validated in various human populations.Research involving a measurement of anxiety that is based only on EEG readings may have only limited acceptance due to its dependence on the unreliability and lack of validation of the EEG as a measure of anxiety, to the best of my knowledge.
What are the motivations of people with severe mental illness to enter or return to work?
I suspect you will find that the motives vary widely. Some are too ill to work. Some would like to work but the only jobs available pay less than a disability subsidy so it doesn't seem worth it. Some get discouraged looking for work and getting continuously turned down. Some don't know how to go about finding appropriate work that they can do. Some do find work and then lose it either because of symptoms, side effects, or stigma. Some don't know what to put on the application form with respect to their illness. Some don't know whether or not to ask for accommodations. Some have no one to use as a reference. Some don't know how to organize a resume. Some think the stress of work will increase their symptoms. Some think the available jobs are beneath them. Some would do anything for a bit of extra money. Some prefer night work or solitary work. Some have no means of transportation to get to work..........
Can anybody help me in finding the fulltext of preventive programms of reflective functioning?
Dear Toktam, You can contact the authors to these paper and ask if they know about programs: Article Beliefs regarding child anxiety and parenting competence in ...Article Patterns of Family Identification and Self-Congruence in Chi...Article Psychopathology among parents of children and adolescents wi...Article Pediatric-Onset and Adult-Onset Separation Anxiety Disorder ...
What is your experience, either experimental or anecdotal, with pregabalin (LYRICA) for generalized anxiety disorder?
Dr. Sood - Since Lewis put this question in the realm of *anecdotal* evidence as well as traditional EBM/PCT etc, I would note some serious downsides to the atypical antipsychotics, which I'm sure come as no surprise to you (1) pts generally report dissatisfaction with the "feeling" of olanzapine, quetiapine, and risperidone as compared to that of BZDs (most preferable) and pregabalin (next most preferable) - while they certainly have therapeutic value, the atypical antipsychotics are disliked by many patients, and thus result in much lower adherence -- they control anxiety at a cost generally not attributed to gabaergics.  (2) The jury is still out on the risks of permanent dyskinesia from all three atypical mentioned -- little research here, but litigation aplenty.  For *some* patients, I agree that atypicals can be used to manage anxiety.  For many, and ANECDOTALLY, for very high functioning pts, the "downside" to the atypicals outweighs the "upside".  That is why I think PGN, as a weaker (less addictive, less dependence-forming) gabaergic, has so much promise - it is well-tolerated, has high adherence, and as your quote states, seems to be effective in keeping pts from "relapsing" (either to BZDs or to GAD or both) after they are weaned from BZDs.  I would also suggest looking at the extensive literature on gabapentin, which I believe has a similar mechanism of action as PGN but is even weaker.  It may be appropriate for some pts with GAD and or BZD dependency.  
What's the role of serotonin in induction of anxiety?
Several lines of evidence implicate decreased serotonergic activity in anxiety and major depression, but its importance in the etiology and severity of these disorders remains unclear. Acute tryptophan depletion studies support a role for decreased serotonin in depression, or at least in relapse of recovered depressed patients. Imaging and post-mortem studies indicate altered activity of discrete regions within the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and their atrophy are associated with depression. Genetic polymorphisms in serotonin genes [e.g., 5-HT transporter (5-HTT), 5-HT1A receptor] have been associated with depression, but these associations are weak and not always reproducible, suggesting that serotonin may be a predisposing factor rather than a cause of depression or anxiety. Pl. refer following thread for further details:-http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4047678/
What is the best methods for conversion of primary amine to corresponding NCS?
Dear Anirban, Check this link out: https://www.google.fi/search?tbm=bks&hl=sv&q=converting+primary+amine+to+corresponding+N-chlorosuccinimide
Any suggestions for a Self Report Anxiety Scales for school aged children?
Hi Fiona!I have used Youth Self Report (YSR - Achenbach 1989) and Strenght and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ - Goodman 1997). They have both sub-scales of anxiety and are valid. Good luck!
Is there any evidence supporting relationship between depressive symptoms and house moving? Could the size difference between houses be a risk factor?
Change in residence and change in living conditions rank pretty high in the Holmes and Rahe Stress Scale of life events that produce distress. The effect of size would, I think, depend on its symbolic meaning - smaller size  a sign of declining social status perhaps for some or of children leaving home for good; for others small size may be welcomed - less to clean, fewer house guests, an opportunity to get rid of useless baggage........
Is anyone familiar with any studies of learning anxiety in higher education students?
Heather:Connectivism does not always equate to inclusivity. There is a plethora of digital content on the Internet that students can connect to for learning, but not all of it is culturally or internationally relevant to the diverse backgrounds of students. I have written a few articles to highlight the need for more inclusivity in our content that we provide to culturally and internationally diverse students. I hope these would be helpful.Data Curriculum Inclusiveness Challenge: Responding to Multicultu...Conference Paper Culturally Responsive ICT Integration into Teaching and LearningArticle Cultural Sensitivity Needed in Online Discussion Rubric Language
Do you have an idea or guidelines about reducing anxiety preoperative?
Hello Hani,This is an interesting area that the nurses at the Surgical unit discussed in their Nursing Journal Club months ago. They've discussed the same review article that Abdulqadir attached for you.They were thinking to conduct an Evidence-based project to look for literature to allievate pre-surgical stresses. Interestingly, the issue raised after observing high blood pressure readings and taccycardia the night before surgey.There is many feasable interventions that can be done such as (1) pre-operative structured visits the night before the surgery; (2)  Patients' round to Operation theatre before surgey. The latest might be argumentative, however there might be a turn around in bringing the theatre to them :) such as providing a friendly-booklet with real pictures and discription of the operation theatre environment.
Does anyone have information on any trans-diagnostic intervention researches carried out in India or Asia?
Awesome !! Thank you so much for the great help :)
Do anyone know reserches about couple's relation and anxiety disorders in their sons?
I haven't come across any research articles on this specific topic. I appreciated your articles, Beatrice.
State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) - low vs medium-high anxiety scores?
Like Daniel, I am curious about using a cut score.  The continuous score generally offers information that may be more meaningful. 
Is anyone doing research into long-term incidence of psychiatric disorders and use of Mefloquine (lariam)?
128Béatrice – thank you very much for your help. My malaria maven down the corridor is interested in conducting some research into this, and my own interest is in the potential role of mefloquine in triggering a psychotic episode in vulnerable people – probably teens and early twenties – similar to the effect of cannabis. It's a tricky design, because the exposed group will have travelled abroad, making selection of controls an issue.Lars - good to hear from you! I hope all is well.
Why some mice prefer to stay in the light compartment of the dark/light transition test following stress?
Based on my experience working with the Elevated Plus Maze, less anxious or stressed rats tend to spend more time in the open/bright arm of the maze, but will spend more time in the dark arm as a result of anxiety or stress. However, contamination may easily influence experiments such as this. If you test a couple of rats using the same equipment without cleaning between sessions, they may just stay around where the previous mice stayed regardless if they are stressed or not, because they feel comfortable.
What are the effects of acute stress on memory formation and retrieval?
Have you been to the website for the HeartMath Institute. http://www.heartmath.com/about/Although this group is dedicated to unlocking the intelligence of the human heart, they monetized this concept by helping people get over test-anxiety.
What are the predictors of suicide in psychiatric patients?
From my experiences doing epidemiological research studies in different countries (Japan and US),  the predictors are culture dependent.  Because each culture/country has different tendencies in terms of frequencies across age groups, gender differences, reasons for attempt, method of attempt, religious affiliations etc.  I'd be careful to generalize findings from other cultures.  Good luck with your research!
Is there any empirical evidence for the modulating role of distraction in reappraisal and rumination?
There is a recent opinion paper on this topic, which includes some updated citation you may find interesting:http://journal.frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00622/fullAlso there are a few imaging papers trying to compare distraction and other emotion regulation strategies:Kanske, P. Heissler, J. Schönfelder, S. & Wessa, M. (2012). Neural correlates of emotion regulation deficits in remitted depression: The influence of regulation strategy, habitual regulation use, and emotional valence. Neuroimage, 61, 686-93.Schönfelder, S., Kanske, P., Heissler, J. & Wessa, M. (2014). Time course of emotion-related responding during distraction and reappraisal. Social Cognitive and Affective Neuroscience, 9(9), 1310-1319.
What antidepressant has better efficacy for depressive disorder and anxiety disorder in patients with carbon monoxide intoxication?
Once I had a patient who attempted suicide with carbon monoxide. She was with her baby, as how could the baby survive without her? She lived and was charged with homocide. I helped to get her hospitalized and eventually she was monitored as a psychiatric out-patient. This and other cases are discussed in my book, "Transforming Depression : Healing the Soul through Creativity." The 3rd edition (2002) is the most up to date. 
Can anyone suggest articles on procrastination and test anxiety of first year medical school students?
Jill, you look at papers by the following authors:Sirin, E. F. (2011). Academic procrastination among undergraduates attending school of physical education and sports: Role of general procrastination, academic motivation and academic self-efficacy. Educational Research and Reviews, 6 (5), 447-455Steel, P. (2010). Arousal, avoidant and decisional procrastinators: Do they exist? Personality and Individual Differences, 48, 926-934.Steel, P. (2007). The nature of procrastination: A meta-analytic and theoretical review of quintessential self-regulatory failure. Psychological Bulletin, 133, 65-94.Wolters, C. A., Pintrich, P. R., & Karabenick, S. A. (2005). Assessing academic self-regulated learning. In KA Moore, LH Lippman (Eds). What do children need to flourish? (pp. 251-270). New York: Springer.van Eerde, W. (2003). A meta-analytically derived nomological network of procrastination. Personality and Individual Differences, 35, 1401-1418.
Where can I access the Bradford Somatic Inventory - 21?
email: glorisa.canino@upr.edu  ormassimiliano.aragona@uniroma1.itthey have used the BSI-21
Is Spence's Children (preschool) Anxiety Scale parent form valid for anxiety diagnosis in children?
Dear Omid,I am not sure about using any scale for anxiety on that young children. All scales are validated for children 7 and more years old!Personally, I do not believe that any other anxiety disorder can start at this age except specific phobia....and this also can be developmental characteristic. However, I am very interested in seeing your results!Dejan
Does anyone know of any measurement tools to assess outcomes of Critical Incident Interventions?
Hello and although this does not directly address the question, I suggest that reading the Cochrane Collaboration review on this might be helpful to you (it provides a systematic review of the literature).  Psychological Debriefing for Preventing PTSD (Rose, Bisson and Wessely). I am a co-author.
Can I use elevated plus maze as a pre-test to control for anxiety levels in two groups?
Using the same test twice can dramatically affect performance on the second test.  I agree that using an alternate test of anxiety would help- you could do open field, and look at center time/surround time, light-dark box, or defensive burying.However, that won't solve your problem of high baseline levels of anxiety.  It could have to do with rat strain, level of food deprivation, time of day for testing, sex or age of the rats, or level of lighting.  Here's just one example of a paper that demonstrates how some of these things can affect performance on the EPM- there are many out there.http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25741257
Has anyone developed a measure that can assess the proposed ICD-11 criteria for PTSD?
Hi Steven,Hope this article useful16_P_Article PTSD Rwanda.pdf124.17 KB
How to test capacity to make medical decisions in a pt. who has selective mutism?
I have always reasoned that a patient who elects not to communicate is for the physicians' purposes in the same position as a patient who cannot communicate.  His wishes are not communicated.  In this sense, failure to exercise a capacity is the same as lacking capacity.  Dr. Breen's reasoning is similar. 
How distinct is performance only social anxiety disorder from nonperformance only social anxiety disorder?
I only attempt an answer to your first question: Social anxiety disorder is strongly based on unrealistic expectations about other people's faultfinding interest in your performance of even trivial tasks like pouring out a cup of coffee ("do they see that my hand is shaking? What will they think of me when they see my hand is shaking? etc.). It testifies of a strong uncertainty about oneself, probably fostered by a learning history with much criticism and rejection by one's parents or one's peer group. In public speaking the expectations of a critical audience and of the impact of making mistakes are much more realistic. And the risk of making mistakes is much greater, just because one's performance is under pressure. The task is not trivial and it needs much training to become skilled in it.Whether there is a physiological difference between the reactions of a social phobic and a person who fears public speaking seems to me of subordinate interest.
What are the risks of practicing mindfulness?
Hi Ahmad,When the body and mind enter stillness, what is already there - experiences held in  mind memory and tissue-held memory in the body, may emerge.  In my studies and practices in bodywork, energy work, mindfulness/meditation, yoga, etc., there has always been reference to these possibilities and recommendations to seek professional medical assistance, i.e. counseling services to work through what may bubble up.  The consequences you are contemplating are really a person's baggage unpacking, and that movement is a path toward wholeness. At the same time, special attention is prudent because a flood is not so healthy rather a gentle peeling of the layers as the person is ready.  In short, it's not so much the methods that pose risk (in my opinion) but the resistance to acknowledge what's there, the readiness/committment to "do the work", and the willingness to seek appropriate services  which may include a variety of providers, strategies, and most importantly, timing. Your thoughts?Best,Victoria
Are there any experts on computer anxiety?
Dear Francis,Thank you for the invitation, and I look forward to presenting the webinar on computer anxiety in healthcare professionals to your group at the University of the Philippines, Manila.
Chronic stress leads to anxiety or depression?
Very interesting discussion. It's interesting that the literature really does not try to parse out when stressors lead to either depression or anxiety, as they are highly comorbid with each other, and they overlap with multiple symptoms. Even their treatments with CBT and antidepressants are similar, and making determinations if this is anxiety or depression really does not matter much, as it does not inform further clinical treatments. In my clinical experience, stressors are either handled via adaptive coping skills, or they aren't via maladaptive ones. These patients may then start having adjustment problems, and you notice the specifiers for adjustment disorder includes -with anxiety, -with depressed mood, and -with anxiety and depressed mood. If the stressors continue, then either a depressive disorder or an anxiety disorder emerges, and this tends to go back to CBT theory about thoughts and appraisals about the fearful stimuli and stressors, and this seems to be a significant variable which in turn determines which disorder emerges.It also appears that anxiety and depression share the same neurobiology: it comes down to the interaction of genetic vulnerabilities (family history) with environmental influences (major life stressors), and it is this interaction which leads to abnormal processing circuits in the brain (hyperactivity of the amygdala to fearful stimuli and stressors). This hypothesis has been supported by a recent study which revealed that people with increased reactivity of their amygdala to fearful stimuli (as measured on fMRI), when they also experience a major life stressor, are more at risk to developing either anxiety or depression up to 4 years into the future: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25654256. Further research should examine how the differentiation is made between the development into depression or anxiety, following study subjects with high amygdala reactivity to fearful stimuli who have also endured a major life stressor. I hypothesize that it is the thoughts and appraisals of the stressors which differentiates anxiety from depression, as discussed previously by other researchers who have replied to this interesting thread.
Can depressive symptoms differ between people?
I'd like to join others in saying "Yes" to your question, Ahmad.Indeed depression is a universal phenomenon and there are subtypes of depression. However, from the perspective of multicultural psychotherapy and international/global psychology, there are differences in one’s symptom manifestations, cultural explanations, and impact of depression on oneself and one’s intimates, depending on one’s cultural identification, acculturation to the Western cultural worldviews, and diverse backgrounds (Falicov, 2014; McGoldrick et al., 2005; Sue & Sue, 2013).In terms of treatment, there are also differences in one's expectations of the treatment goals, processes and relationship with the healer (Cheung, 2009; Hong & Ham, 2001).DSM-5 has provided an excellent outline for cultural formulation (OCF) and Cultural Formulation Interview (CFI).DSM5CulturalFormulationInterview.pdf407.31 KB
Is there research that considers how perceptible panic attacks are to observers?
Hi Kelly,I did work on panic attacks many years ago. I recall that often times the person who is having the attack can not talk because his or her throat is so dry. This seemed to be overlooked in the literature at that time.
Can anxiety sensitivity predict psychotherapeutic outcomes in cognitive behavior therapy for emotional disorders?
Dear Omid, Cogn Behav Ther. 2006;35(4):248-56.A brief cognitive-behavioral approach to reducing anxiety sensitivity decreases pain-related anxiety.Watt MC, Stewart SH, Lefaivre MJ, Uman LS. AbstractAnxiety sensitivity (AS; fear of anxiety-related sensations) is a known risk factor for anxiety disorders and recently has been linked to pain disorders. The present study was guided by the hypothesis that a program designed to reduce AS levels might also result in a decrease in anxiety related to pain sensations. Female undergraduates, selected as either high or low in AS according to screening scores on the Anxiety Sensitivity Index (ASI), were randomly assigned to participate in 3 1-hour, small group sessions of either cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT; psycho-education, cognitive restructuring, and interoceptive exposure) or a non-specific treatment (NST). Immediately prior to and following the intervention, participants completed the 20-item Pain Anxiety Symptoms Scale (PASS-20). Consistent with hypothesis, results revealed a 3-way interaction between AS group, intervention condition, and time on PASS-20 total scores. Only participants with high pre-morbid levels of AS assigned to the CBT condition showed a significant reduction in scores on the PASS-20 from pre- to post-treatment. Implications for improving CBT approaches for pain disorders are discussed.
Does anyone have research validating the link between vestibular disorders and childhood anxiety?
There are few articles about it that may be helpfull:1- Riina N, IImari P, Kentala E. Vertido and embalance in children: a retrospective study in Helsinki University otorhinolaryngology clinic. Arco Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2005 Nov;131(11):996-1000.2- Honaker J, Samy RN. Migraine-associated vestibulopathy. Curr Opin in Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2008;16(5):412-5.
Has anyone had experience with or knows about Cognitive Behavioural Integrated Treatment (C-BIT) for Severe Mental Health Illness?
Thank you for clarification re: NICE recommendation
Can anyone recommend me randomized controlled trial studies on Effectiveness of Online CBT for Anxiety, OCD, and Pathological Gambling?
I refer you to an excellent review by Newman et al. (2011) about this very issue (minimal-contact treatments for depression and anxiety):http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21130939
Can you recommend any articles about "being successfull in the host country arouse fear among migrants"?
Thinking about the phenomenon systemically and psychodynamically, an immigrant's success can have a reciprocal effect on him/her and his/her host country (e.g., how the host country views and responds to his/her success can affect how s/he feels about him/herself and his/her success, etc.). Being likely a minority in the host country, s/he might feel lonely/an outsider in his/her success; for some, it can arouse some angst or existential depression.
Are there any papers on Early responders to CBT for children and adolescents with OCD or anxiety disorders?
Dear Nor,Some papers:Predictors of treatment response to intensive cognitive-behavioral therapy for pediatric obsessive-compulsive disorder. Rudy BM, Lewin AB, Geffken GR, Murphy TK, Storch EA. Psychiatry Res. 2014 Dec 15;220(1-2):433-40.The prediction of treatment outcomes by early maladaptive schemas and schema modes in obsessive-compulsive disorder. Thiel N, Tuschen-Caffier B, Herbst N, Külz A, Nissen C, Hertenstein E, Gross E, Voderholzer U. BMC Psychiatry. 2014 Dec 25;14(1):1689.Mindfulness-based cognitive therapy in obsessive-compulsive disorder: protocol of a randomized controlled trial. Külz A, Landmann S, Cludius B, Hottenrott B, Rose N, Heidenreich T, Hertenstein E, Voderholzer U, Moritz S. BMC Psychiatry. 2014 Nov 18;14(1):314.Cognitive behavior therapy for obsessive-compulsive and related disorders.Lewin AB, Wu MS, McGuire JF, Storch EA.nPsychiatr Clin North Am. 2014 Sep;37(3):415-45.Integrating Real-Time Feedback of Outcome Assessment for Individual Patients in an Inpatient Psychiatric Setting: A Case Study of Personalized Psychiatric Medicine.Confer JR, White M, Groat MM, Madan A, Allen JG, Fowler JC, Kahn DA.J Psychiatr Pract. 2015 Jan;21(1):72-78.Self-Affirmation Breaks the Link Between the Behavioral Inhibition System and the Threat-Potentiated Startle Response.Crowell A, Page-Gould E, Schmeichel BJ.Emotion. 2015 Jan 19Test of an hypothesized structural model of the relationships between cognitive style and social anxiety: A 12-month prospective study.González-Díez Z, Calvete E, Riskind JH, Orue I.J Anxiety Disord. 2015 Jan 9;30C:59-65.
How do you deal with vertigo or acrophobia?
"Alfred Hitchcock knew a thing or two about the silver screen, but the man’s medical vocabulary left much to be desired: Contrary to what his iconic film would tell you, vertigo isn’t at all related to heights. It’s actually a sub-category of dizziness, which is a catchall term used to describe unsteady sensations.""Doctors break down dizziness into three subcategories: presyncope (feeling faint or light headed), disequilibrium (feeling off-balance) and the more familiar vertigo, defined as the sensation of motion where none actually exists. Different people experience vertigo in different ways; for some the world might be spiralling around them and others might be spiralling around the world.""Treatment can take one of three different forms. Sedatives such as Ativan or Lorazepam are commonly prescribed, because they mask the symptoms of BPPV. They don’t, however, affect the course of the disease. For people with severe vertigo, brain surgery may be required, although it’s only recommended for those with highly recurrent, entirely disabling episodes. But for up to 95 percent of sufferers, the most effective treatment is the Epley manoeuvre, a non-pharmaceutical procedure discovered fewer than 20 years ago. In fact, because the manoeuvre is still relatively new, patients see an average of three doctors and incur average costs of $2, 600 US in prescriptions and missed work before they receive the proper treatment, according to a U.S. study."“The Epley manoeuvre is a way of rolling the patient such that you get those crystals from the semicircular canal back to the saccule, where they’re supposed to be,” Bromwich describes.http://www.besthealthmag.ca/best-you/health/how-to-cope-with-vertigo
What is known about typology of school phobia/school refusal?
300.29 Specific Phobia - school.I have worked with many chronic "school refusers." Some are phobic others are not. If they are phobic, a desensitization protocol worked very well. I have them list all of the situations that they avoid. I have them then rate each item on the list  from 1 to 10 for the severity of the anxiety associated and then sort from lowest to highest. I teach them a relaxation method if they don't know one. I then have them select an item to expose themselves to for a certain amount of time. I am sure you know the drill. Relax prior, predict the severity, expose, relax, rate the actual discomfort. Repeat. Once they experience a reduction in anxiety from repeated exposure; it becomes highly motivating and they are back in school within several months.
How should I interpret the results of Visual Analogue Scale-Anxiety?
Thank you Beatrice. That was helpful. Where can I find Dental Fear Survey by Kleinecht, 1973?
How does psychotherapy facilitates death anxiety in an existential point of view?
I do recommend to everyone here eliminating your own fear of death first, and completely, before advising clients or patients. Eliminating this fear has been very helpful for me in living a healthy, happy, and balanced life. There is no need for esoteric philosophies or mysticism in accomplishing this. It's an automatic by-product of any of several effortless practices.
Could anyone share your clinical experience regarding pharmacotherapy for hypersexuality in patients with neurocognitive disorders? Thank you!
Dear Chen-Chia,DEPENDS -- on the "cause" . . . Several years (decades) ago, my wife and I were invited to present at a symposium for elderly patients at a major psychiatric hospital. As we were both giving keynote addresses, we were invited on grand rounds. One of the patients we encountered was an elderly man, a grandfather, who although he had developed Alzheimer's was reasonably well adjusted and living at home with his son's family. Everyone loved and helped care for "grandpa" until he started making unwarranted sexual comments and advances towards his two grand-daughters. Subsequently, several weeks before we met him, he was transferred to the long-term psychogeriatric ward of the hospital -- for permanent stay.Given his history, symptomatology, and the fact that we were both lecturing on the effects of medication use among the elderly, we suggested that his inappropriate behaviour might be due to a cyanocobalamin (vitamin B12) deficiency. A Shillings test revealed that his B12 level of extremely below normal. Subsequent daily injectable doses of 1000 mcg per day resulted in significant improvement in his mental status by the end of several weeks AND after several months, he was happily reunited with his family.A true story, with a happy ending, that we also reported on as a case history at that time in the medical literature (see my list of publications for the exact reference). This response does NOT detract from the excellent advice that our other 2 colleagues have already provided you with. BUT, it should ADD to that advice and be a reminder to all of us clinicians that the first and most common response is not always the best for a particular individual patient . . .I hope that this response is of some assistance.Sincerely,Lou
What is "alienation of peers"?
It's "peer alienation;" I think you hit a translation problem there. Basically, it refers to the extent to which a person is alienated from (feels separate from, is not accepted by, and may be subject to criticism or hostility from) his or her peers - those of a similar age and station in life. Mostly you hear about it with school-aged children.
Does any one have knowledge of a survey ( which has had some psychometric validation data) to measure needle phobia? I
Do you need validation type data or normative data?
Has emotion context insensitivity been examined in regards to anxiety?
Thank you!
Are there any publications concerning chronic pain and attachment style focused interventions?
Dear Bob,here are some papers on attachment style and chronic pain:The relationship of attachment style to depression, catastrophizing and health care utilization in patients with chronic painPaul Ciechanowski et al., Pain 104, Issue 3, August 2003, Pages 627–637An interpersonally based model of chronic pain: An application of attachment theorySamuel F. Mikail, Peter R. Henderson, Giorgio A. Tasca; Clinical Psychology Review14, Issue 1, 1994, Pages 1–16Development of a questionnaire for the assessment of active and passive coping strategies in chronic pain patientsGregory K. Brown, Perry M. Nicassio; Pain 31,  Issue1, 1987, Pages 53–64
How can I get papers about using virtual reality for depression treatment?
Thank you for these information
Is there a scale with good psychometric properties to assess OCD symptoms?
The YBOCS is a good choice.  If you're looking for a self-report measure, there's also the Revised Obsessive Compulsive Inventory (OCI-R) by Foa and colleagues (2002 - Psychological Assessment. Vol. 14, No. 4, 485–496).
Is there a tissue repository for post-mortem brain tissues obtained from subjects with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)?
You may also check with NDRI (the National Disease Research Interchange) if they can supply you with the samples needed. Coordinates of one of their representatives are given below:Cristina KellyScientific Services CoordinatorNDRIThe National Disease Research Interchange8 Penn Center, 1628 JFK Blvd.15th Floor Philadelphia, PA 19103Phone: (800) 222-6374 ext. 241Email:ckelly@ndriresource.orgWeb: http://www.ndriresource.org
What is the relationship between visual perception, stress and anxiety?
An interesting, free-ranging conversation. As a meditation teacher, I'm exclusively interested in dissolving and eliminating all stress, anxiety, and other negative effects that limit a person's functioning in life, that limit or prevent their natural experience of peace. love, and happiness. Nevertheless, I see the value of academic reasoning and research into all the topics that we are all raising here. While I recognize the value of research, I remain focused on directly helping people live better by eliminating their stored stresses so the nervous system can function fully and properly.
What are your thoughts or perceptions of brainspotting? Does anyone have research relating to brainspotting?
There is little investigation about it. But i do have a good clinical experience with it, specially with body issues like chronic pain and anxiety. I did both I and II levels. In Brasil there are study groups about it and maybe soon some studies are going to be published. A international conference of Brainspottingis going to hapen in 2016 in Brasil.
What is the EPM test?
http://www.elevatedplusmaze.com/>> This blog might be helpful!!!
Does the severity of post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) correlate with the core culture and military culture of a nation?
Beatrice and Justin,Thank you for your responses. Since my work focuses on the Roman army, and the Roman army was composed exclusively of male soldiers, I am gender-bound in my research. Please consider this factor in your responses. Beatrice has convinced me to conduct a second, future study involving female soldiers.Val.
